the general evaluator role is one of the
most challenging roles to take on at a
Toastmasters meeting but in this video
I'm going to give you several tips so
that you can not only sign up for this
role with confidence but you can know
that you're going to do an incredible
job now make sure you watch this entire
video because I'm going to give you
several key tips throughout and I'm
going to show you a live demonstration
of me taking on the general evaluator
role at my local Toast Masters Club and
critiquing myself giving an evaluation
of the evaluation you're going to see
and you're going to get a lot of good
information through that but before I
show you that video what is the general
evaluator who is this person what is
their role and the general evaluator is
basically the person who evaluates every
role that has yet to be evaluated within
a toast Master's meeting some of these
roles include the Toastmaster him or
herself the person who delivers a toast
the gamaran the a counter the timer
speech evaluators table topics Master
needless to say you have to be paying
attention if you are the general
evaluator because there are many many
people you have to give feedback to and
I want you to go into meetings as the
general evaluator being focused being
ready to listen throughout the entire
meeting and being prepared to take a lot
of notes in fact these were the notes I
took in the meeting that you're going to
watch and you can see my paper is
completely full there was a lot of
things I had to write down and it's
important to write a lot of notes so
that you can quickly look at your piece
of paper have the reminder of what the
person did well and then articulate that
through your general evaluation so let's
do it let's jump right into the actual
live presentation I did I'm going to
throw it up here on the screen and I am
going to watch it in real time and give
you my reaction action my thoughts to
how I did in this
role thank you Mr Toastmaster fellow
Toast Masters and our welcome guest the
role of the general evaluator is
basically to evaluate every single role
that has not yet received an evaluation
in fact the general evaluator him or
herself is the only role that isn't
evaluated in a Toast Masters meeting and
we had a fantastic meeting today so I'm
going to stop it right there I think I
did this part well the introduction
couple things I noticed so I jumped
right into the
formalities I know in other roles you
want to hook the audience with something
special and that would be an elite elite
way to give a general evaluation but I
find the big purpose of the general
evaluation is to give as much feedback
to a bunch of roles as possible and I
always find it's very difficult to stay
within the allotted time in fact on this
one you will not notice toward the end
if you're keeping close attention that I
actually went over time this is supposed
to be 3 to 5 minutes in most clubs I go
about 5 minutes 50 seconds so quite a
bit over time and that's always the
challenge I usually leave out an intro
hook and I get right into the
formalities one thing I did well here
was explaining what the general
evaluator role is I've made the mistake
in the past of not doing that because
you're so eager to jump into your not
notes so sometimes you forget to do that
but it's important to explain what the
general evaluator rule is especially if
you have guests in the audience another
thing you may
notice we have some people who are on
Zoom projected up behind me there's a
little laptop there I'm doing my best
throughout this evaluation to also look
down because that is eye contact with
the virtual audience that is there I
feel like so far eye contact is going
all right for me let's keep keep
watching led by our President Dan who
started the meeting with the opening
which is something that he always does
he always does it on time to get us
started with a lot of energy and today
was no different and the theme he
brought into the meeting was science
fiction and I heard a number of our
fellow members talk to Dan about how
this was a great theme they were
incredibly excited about it and that got
the meeting going right there a bunch of
things Dan did really well first off was
the smooth transitions he added a little
something as he introduced each person
to the front one thing I love that Dan
did is he introduced people by their
first and last name as well Dan also had
clever introductions things like you may
notice here I got a little caught up
usually I like to be more subtle with
referencing my notes but I recall this
moment where I actually was starting to
freeze and forget what I was supposed to
say so you actually see me go go with my
pointer finger and try to remind myself
where I am on my notes maybe it's not a
big deal it was something that bugged me
as I'm watching this back the other
thing I noticed where I could improve
upon is and I have this elongated and
that I add in between sentences that's
something that an a counter May pick up
on but great thing about the general
evaluator role I went after the a
counter so I didn't hear those comments
this meeting let's keep watching I'd
like to welcome Amit who is our
speech evaluation Champion I'd like to
welcome Andy who is our favorite
firefighter that little bit extra which
was the warm introduction I thought Dan
handled distractions really well there
was a lot of side chatter in today's
meeting and that's a gift for us as an
audience to remember that there's a lot
of pressure when you're up here doing
the Toastmaster role and when you hear
that side chatter but Dan spoke above it
he rose above that fad came up here with
the toast roll and he brought incredible
enthusiasm he was excited he said he
couldn't wait to talk about this role to
get right into it he had incredible eye
contact with the whole room and included
Zoom as well my gift for fad is
something called The Invisible table
which is the 90° hands that stay here
allow them to fall to the side and then
bring them up when needed two things I
want to mention here first off you may
be noticing that I am using our club
members names and not saying you this is
something you want to give on any
evaluation of any type and Toast Masters
you want to stay in what we call third
person saying Fahad did this well even
if I'm looking right at Fahad I still
use his name and the reason we do that
is so everyone gets the benefit of the
evaluation it's not simply addressed to
one person because we can all benefit
the other thing I want to mention is
what I just told Fahad the invisible
table this is one of the most common
things I see in Toast Masters in fact
I'm noticing myself even struggling with
it a little bit as I'm delivering this
evaluation many people keep their arms
at this 90° angle where they're just
like this and they never drop below I
call that the invisible table allow your
hands to fall to your side as you're
doing any speaking roll and then just
bring them up for emphasis and allow
them to drop back at back at your side
Wendy so nice to have her back in the
room here in person she took on the
timer roll she came right to the front
did an incredible job and in her report
it showed those listening skills
throughout the meeting and added a
little something extra a meet came up
here with his humorist and inspirational
role and I say and because I think he
Incorporated both of those things into
the answer he welcomed thank you Captain
Toastmaster fellow to Stone Ians a very
science fiction like
introduction his body language in a
galaxy far away he opened his arms up
like this to really allow us to feel it
and an amazing
conclusion you should pay attention to
science fiction before it's too late
before we're actually living it
incredible job by emit I was happy with
what I told Amit for how he had done
giving him that feedback this is one
thing if you can add it in when some
uses great body language in your notes
put the actual words that they said as
they did the big body language it helps
the audience remember specifically when
that body language took place and
reinforces how they did that very well
one thing I noticed criticizing myself
here how I could improve when I lose my
train of thought and when many people
lose their train of thought when
speaking at a toast Master's meeting
it's tempting to look up that look of
thinking trying to find the right words
if you can keep the eye contact going
throughout don't look up because it
takes away from the eye contact this is
tough very elite skill I noticed myself
doing it a few
times two was our Garian and I learned
something about the word cyborg I always
thought of cyborg as something that
wasn't real that was but it's true Dan
was a cyborg today he had his iPad which
was part of his notes for being
Toastmaster it is increasingly becoming
ubiquitous to have our phones with us
and be an extension of ourselves and how
about that report Sue comes up here
acting like she's a cyborg she makes any
role the Garian role is not known for
being an exciting role Sue made it a
very exciting role Jeff took on the blue
Board review and what Jeff did really
well is getting through it despite being
on Zoom it's tough he doesn't hear
everything that that's happening what I
appreciated was the fact Dan came up to
the front to inform him that's an
important piece so that we can keep Zoom
informed and allow them to know what's
happening in the
room Andy did an incredible job making
our guests feel very welcome taking on
the table topics Master
role he did so in a number of ways first
off he introduced them as part of the
introduction not just welcome guests he
said Chris and angelin the second thing
he did well was he explained the timing
for the benefit of our guas and then as
Moya mentioned he catered the questions
specifically to the guas allowed them to
see an example of table topics and then
ask them an achievable
question as you can see at this point I
just finished giving Andy's review there
there's a lot to get through in these
meetings one common thing I see during
the general evaluator role when others
take it on is that they spend too much
time giving feedback for some of the
first few people so for the Toastmaster
for the toast for perhaps the Garian and
then they see that red light and then
they're rushing and they're panicking
and I've already told you I went over
time on this evaluation it was about 50
seconds longer than it should be I did
the same problem you have to keep that
pace going pretty quickly when you do
the general evaluator role in order to
give room for everyone who gave us
speaking or who spoke through the
meeting you want to give everyone
feedback something to be mindful of keep
that pace at a good keep that pace at a
good Pace wow good thing I wasn't the
Grim har in that meeting but hopefully
you know what I mean keep that strong
Pace keep moving through through the
entire meeting for the benefit of
everyone who has
attended Joe and fad shared a lot of
similarities two incredible speech
evaluations the first thing Joe did very
well is the calmness came up here and
there was a long pause and it drew in
the audience's attention and then as he
delivered these pieces of advice he
Incorporated those pauses in between
instead of crutch words and I thought he
Incorporated great vocal variety and
energy throughout fad brought that same
enthusiasm that he brought earlier in
the meeting and also showcased great
listening skills with the gifts that he
gave the speakers Moya gave a Master
Class in an evaluation she always
delivers feedback that goes beyond lwh
hanging fruit it showcases how high her
level of expertise is within the
Toastmasters program but also how much
she cares about each of us improving our
skill set incredible gifts by Moya and
finally before I get into that and
finally again I'm noticing a few times
that looking up so something to be
mindful of when we're thinking of the
words to say looking up but also some
opportunities for body language there if
I'm being really Critical with how I did
I talked about lwh hanging fruit and my
hand kind of went low but there was
really an opportunity to get down low
and point and kind of explain like lwh
hanging fruit as I said those words I'm
being maybe a little overcritical but
these are things I'm noticing as I'm
watching the general evaluation Pablo
and Margaret were not asked
questions but until the very end they
didn't have a chance to speak and then
Dan came up here asked them a couple
extra questions and Pablo showed what it
looks like to be prepared for a meeting
even though he wasn't expecting a
question that's something that's
different he came up here with a whole
story of beginning middle and end and
Margaret I love that she stood up on
camera and again she was prepared she
didn't Panic that she wasn't prepared
for that question she answered in a
great way overall an incredible meeting
today all right there you have it I'm
curious feel free to comment in the
comment section let me know how you
think I did on that General evaluation
role but I want to draw attention to
some of the things first off you could
hear that I really aimed through that
General evaluation which by the way I
think I did a good job of overall I
think I showed the basics of how to do
that but I was really striving to give
valuable feedback and it is so hard to
do that if you're not writing notes
again I'll show you the piece of pap
paper I used for that meeting there is
notes all the way throughout it and this
brings me to one of the tips that I have
for you as a general evaluator is keep
your notes pretty concise with keywords
that are going to jog your memory if
you're writing your notes in full
sentences it's going to be difficult
when you're stood in front of an
audience to look and read and remember
what it was that you're going to talk
about or read a full sentence and then
articul ulate that especially as you
want to get to a point where you can
read as you're talking and then continue
with the next thought in order to do
that keep it to key words if I'm talking
about how Joe did with a speech
evaluation the word vocal variety will
suffice that will remind me whatever I
was thinking about how Joe implemented
vocal variety and you can always put the
word gift beside it gift means something
that they can improve upon this will
help you quickly glance at your notes
and then continue with your general
evaluation I already mentioned the
importance of staying in third person
throughout delivering a general
evaluation so that everyone in the
audience gets the benefit of your
evaluation but the other tip I would
give you is be ready to adapt I have
seen so many Toast Masters meetings
where the Toast Master
unfortunately has allowed the agenda to
sort of get away from him or her and
then the very end they say can you
please give a concise version of the
general evaluator role which I don't
know if that's totally fair to the
general evaluator he or she has taken so
much time put a lot of effort in the
meeting so it's not really that nice to
ask them to reduce their rule but I've
seen it so many times so that's a tip if
you're going to sign up for the
Toastmaster rule ensure that your timing
is spoton throughout but if you are in
that General evaluator position you have
to ad ad apt if you only have 2 minutes
to give a general evaluation it's up to
you to figure out how you're going to
give all of the most important points
into that two minutes perhaps if you had
two things you had mention for every
role you need to scale it back and only
mention one thing for each role I say
that because I've seen it many times be
ready to adapt if you've taken on the
general evaluator role finally the whole
point of this General evaluator role is
to help out the other in your Club to
give them genuine feedback and to help
them through their speaking Journey so
if you sign up for General evaluator
which I encourage you to do even if
you're a new member you can do it simply
be ready to stay alert throughout the
entire meeting and to be writing a lot
of notes as I mentioned this is one of
the most difficult roles to take on in
the Toastmasters Club but you can do it
you simply need to be paying attention
writing a lot of notes
and you will improve over time taking on
this role but knowing this I know you're
going to do an incredible job the next
time you take on General evaluator I
hope this video has been beneficial to
you if it has please let me know in the
comments hit that like button please
subscribe to my channel my channel is
all about providing you with valuable
communication impactful communication
information that includes a lot of
videos about the Toastmasters program
and also I provide Consulting help if
you are taking on a speech contest or
you have a big wedding speech that's
coming up or you have to deliver a
presentation for work whatever that is I
have helped many people through those
similar types of tasks and worked
one-on-one with them helping them to
perfect their speech providing
customized evaluations this is a premium
service but if you think it's right for
you contact me my emails and the show
notes thank you so much for taking the
time to watch this video I'll see you on
the next one